Caption: well where do they go enjoying the day
Caption: enjoying the day yeah cool alright well
Caption: it's about to get a whole lot better
Caption: ratifies very own Shivaun a Vanilla's up
Caption: next and she's gonna be discussing
Caption: burnout I believe so I gives me an
Caption: absolute pleasure to welcome her to the
Caption: stage and I will just ask you to give
Caption: her a round of applause after telling
Caption: you that she won't be taking any
Caption: questions because she's gonna run right
Caption: up to time so if you want to reach out
Caption: you've on her Twitter handles up there
Caption: or you can give her an email or you can
Caption: just come and talk to her afterwards and
Caption: she'll probably hanging around as well
Caption: so I'm gonna turn her on and let's give
Caption: her a really big round of applause
Caption: [Applause]
Caption: [Music]
Caption: you're welcome so today I'm going to be
Caption: talking to you about burnout it's a
Caption: topic that has way too much stigma
Caption: around it and today my hope is to remove
Caption: that a little bit and to cover some
Caption: information for you that will help you
Caption: prevent it so I've been in a people and
Caption: culture based role specifically in the
Caption: software industry for over a decade now
Caption: and burnout is something that I've seen
Caption: specific to our industry all too often
Caption: it's actually one of the highest
Caption: industries beside to have besides health
Caption: that experiences the burnout rates that
Caption: we do so today I'm going to be covering
Caption: what it is give you a little bit more
Caption: information why it happens so some of
Caption: the causes that way you can recognize
Caption: these perhaps call it out as well why
Caption: it's so common in our industry this is
Caption: when I touch on agile but it's not an
Caption: agile talk so I would be offended if you
Caption: thought otherwise
Caption: if this isn't the talk to you I want to
Caption: cover the signs and symptoms that way
Caption: you can recognize these and get the help
Caption: when you need it and some prevention
Caption: tips as well and I'm gonna squeeze all
Caption: of this into 20 minutes but what I've
Caption: done is I'm providing a resource slide
Caption: at the very end as well so you can call
Caption: some professional resources if you're
Caption: experiencing burnout and I've also
Caption: provided all the content on the URL on
Caption: the
Caption: and last slide as well I'm actually
Caption: providing a lot more articles for you to
Caption: read and a lot more self blogs and
Caption: information that I found useful to help
Caption: with this talk as well so today we're
Caption: going to be sharing some of my
Caption: experiences with you one of which is you
Caption: know a lot of my friends in the room
Caption: will know that I'm not a very vulnerable
Caption: person I'm not very open to how I'm
Caption: feeling and that's what I want to change
Caption: today I want to help remove this stigma
Caption: I will be sharing one of my stories but
Caption: I do need your help as well to remove
Caption: some of this stigma so if you're
Caption: comfortable I'd love if everyone in the
Caption: room if you've experienced burnout if
Caption: you could put your hand up for me oh my
Caption: goodness okay and if anyone in the room
Caption: has has known someone that's experienced
Caption: burnout so this has become a huge
Caption: problem and as we can see you know I
Caption: would say about eighty-five to ninety
Caption: percent of the room put their hands up
Caption: and it's become a huge problem when we
Caption: do need to talk about it more in fact
Caption: two-thirds of the global workforce have
Caption: experienced burnout in some way there
Caption: was a survey of thousands of employees
Caption: across the world and 23 percent of them
Caption: responded that they've experienced
Caption: burnout
Caption: often if not always another 44 percent
Caption: responded that they experienced it
Caption: sometimes with people saying that it's
Caption: just now part of the job which makes me
Caption: personally quite sad so what is it let's
Caption: investigate that it's a state of
Caption: complete emotional and physical
Caption: exhaustion it's when you have no more to
Caption: give and it has detrimental impacts on
Caption: our health and I'll go through some of
Caption: these as well I think of it as a pace
Caption: that's simply not sustainable you can't
Caption: do it any longer we can think of it as
Caption: the bank account analogy it's a state in
Caption: which the withdrawals are consistently
Caption: greater than the deposits so much my
Caption: bank account these days but it's
Caption: definitely essentially there's nothing
Caption: else there that you can take no more
Caption: deposits to take this brings me if you
Caption: walk away with nothing more than this
Caption: today I'll be happy a lot of the
Caption: research particularly when I was
Caption: starting to delve into this a little bit
Caption: more as
Caption: well number of years ago focus is on
Caption: work-related burnout doesn't really
Caption: focus on anything outside of that but if
Caption: you think about students who are
Caption: overloaded with study commitments
Caption: they've experienced burnout think about
Caption: primary caregivers with a perhaps
Caption: severely disabled child for example they
Caption: experienced burnout and it brings me to
Caption: my story of my first experience it was
Caption: about nine months ago now and this is my
Caption: husband and daughter up here look at
Caption: that and for me it was an experience
Caption: that was completely unrelated to work so
Caption: I had started at ratify after maternity
Caption: leave so it's three months into the job
Caption: and it was amazing there was no
Caption: unrealistic pressures it was a great
Caption: environment but I was doing at the same
Caption: time finishing my master's of HR I had a
Caption: one-year-old severely sleep-deprived if
Caption: any parents in the room would kind of
Caption: relate to that and I was also a sudden
Caption: part-time job so three days a week and
Caption: what I was doing was had this
Caption: preconception that part-time was just
Caption: five days crammed into three which it's
Caption: not that's another thing you should take
Caption: away from today three days is three days
Caption: but what I did is I put the pressures on
Caption: myself my personality type as well which
Caption: is one of the leading causes of burnout
Caption: and I'll actually go into that was a
Caption: factor in this and it was the
Caption: expectations I put myself I started to
Caption: experience some symptoms which I will be
Caption: covering but I became disengaged for my
Caption: friends started to get frequent colds
Caption: started to get aches quite often I just
Caption: assumes you know winter colds and it
Caption: wasn't until I ended up in hospital with
Caption: heart palpitations from stress that I
Caption: realized it was stress induced s--
Caption: burnout so for me it was actually a
Caption: little bit frustrating because this is a
Caption: topic that I talk to people about all
Caption: the time and you know know the scientist
Caption: know the symptoms and I completely
Caption: ignored them so I had to investigate why
Caption: and it was because I associated it to
Caption: work my work was great so when I saw
Caption: these signs
Caption: I certainly saw them but I ignored them
Caption: because my work life was great it was at
Caption: home and my choices that I made that
Caption: made me experience that burnout but
Caption: let's investigate work what is it about
Caption: our industry that causes such a shocking
Caption: statistic 57 point 1610 there's a global
Caption: survey across a number of tech companies
Caption: think Google think you know big small
Caption: tech companies globally and there was
Caption: one simple question
Caption: have you experienced burnout and the
Caption: response yes for 57 point 16 percent of
Caption: people it was huge
Caption: so let's investigate why broken it down
Caption: into three causes these are three main
Caption: causes there's a lot of information on
Caption: burnout online that will say some other
Caption: courses as well but I've done three
Caption: work-related personality and lifestyle
Caption: so a lot of these you might not have
Caption: control over for example reward and
Caption: recognition or unclear job expectations
Caption: you might not be able to control those
Caption: so I wanted to provide you with some
Caption: ways that you or your teams could
Caption: control this now these bottom two and
Caption: realistic job expectations and high
Caption: pressure environments are two things
Caption: that I've seen in our industry all too
Caption: often I'd love to see a show of hands if
Caption: you've seen these two things in your
Caption: environments yeah so it brings me it's
Caption: not a / thing I someone pointed that out
Caption: these undivided it's just a line that I
Caption: put in
Caption: for aesthetic purposes someone was like
Caption: why are you dividing those two I'm not
Caption: this brings me to the story of my title
Caption: so I was finishing my masters and I
Caption: decided to do an assignment on agile
Caption: because I work in an industry where it's
Caption: used regularly and I love I just like to
Caption: know everything about everything so I
Caption: thought that's just two birds right so I
Caption: studied the agile manifesto as part of
Caption: this assignment and realized one of the
Caption: core principles was working at a
Caption: sustainable pace now hands up if you've
Caption: experienced working at an unsigned at
Caption: this unsustainable pace on an agile
Caption: project
Caption: I'm glad most of the room put their
Caption: hands up otherwise I would just walk out
Caption: so I knew that stat of 57.69 before
Caption: reading this so it got me thinking agile
Caption: so prevalent in industries is the cause
Caption: so what I did is I decided to speak to
Caption: an expert as you should do I went to a
Caption: adult expert within industry and in
Caption: hindsight probably shouldn't have opened
Caption: with this question but I just asked her
Caption: flat out does agile calls burnout so in
Caption: hindsight I should have you know
Caption: softened that one a little bit but
Caption: luckily she's a friend and her response
Caption: was agile should do the opposite it
Caption: should an agile culture should do the
Caption: opposite but as an industry are we truly
Caption: working agile
Caption: so I had this conversation with him it
Caption: was it was great we had a lot of
Caption: discussions out of it after I completely
Caption: offended her profession initially and we
Caption: kind of got through the why so you know
Caption: with clients wanting fix prices and
Caption: having on these unrealistic expectations
Caption: and timeframes you know can we the way
Caption: we want to work a jille can we do it I
Caption: think so but I think but we do have to
Caption: have some solutions in order to make us
Caption: work at a sustainable pace in our
Caption: industry some simple solutions
Caption: first of all push back you and your team
Caption: if you've got the confidence to do so
Caption: push back and say questioner does this
Caption: project or whatever you're doing don't
Caption: will this lead to a sustainable pace
Caption: it's a simple question refer back to the
Caption: agile principles and say is is this
Caption: really agile and questioner question
Caption: your stakeholders and question your
Caption: clients it's easy for me to say but if
Caption: you truly question it as a group and if
Caption: we do it as an industry we might be able
Caption: to stop this educate educate our clients
Caption: and stakeholders as to the benefits of
Caption: that job or give them information on the
Caption: effects and costs of burnout personally
Caption: I think the biggest cost of burner is
Caption: the human impact personally that I think
Caption: that's the biggest one but if you're
Caption: talking to clients and stakeholders
Caption: sometimes you need to work with
Caption: financials so if you tell them and I've
Caption: got links to this as well so you can
Caption: just send them these links it costs test
Caption: rally ax 10 billion dollars a year
Caption: that's what burnout costs Australian
Caption: companies give them these figures as
Caption: I've got about three or four articles
Caption: that provide different kind of costs and
Caption: stats again I think the biggest one is
Caption: an assuming impact but if we have to
Caption: provide them with this information to
Caption: educate them more and that's what we
Caption: need to do
Caption: now let's look at personality
Caption: I personally relate to the top to show
Caption: of hands if we've got some
Caption: perfectionists and high achieving
Caption: personalities in the room a couple yep
Caption: now this is one of my favorite things
Caption: about working with some of the people I
Caption: work with is that they strive for the
Caption: best and they're incredibly high
Caption: achievers but it's to our detriment as
Caption: well what we need to do here is question
Caption: whether or not what we're doing
Caption: needs to be as perfect as it needs to be
Caption: avoid go gold plating for example just
Caption: question is this worth the stress I know
Caption: myself that I can sit here and say you
Caption: know questioner I still do it
Caption: I still go too far and the perfectionism
Caption: spectrum and say yeah I want to do it
Caption: like this but that leads to stress and
Caption: myself lifestyle causes poor work-life
Caption: balance
Caption: I've actually got a prevention the slide
Caption: for this as well later on too many
Caption: responsibilities but a huge one is not
Caption: prioritizing sleep remember the bank
Caption: account analogy so burnout is a state
Caption: with which the withdrawals are
Caption: consistently greater than the deposits
Caption: the deposits come from sleep the more
Caption: sleep you get the more deposits you get
Caption: the less you see where I'm going right
Caption: anyone's had sleep deprivation before to
Caption: the point where you know you start to
Caption: feel some physical signs that won't
Caption: distract me I love that
Caption: that'll help not prioritizing sleep is a
Caption: huge one for burnout now we've covered
Caption: some of the main causes let's look at
Caption: some of the signs and symptoms and as I
Caption: said there's no cause without that and I
Caption: provided those in articles because I
Caption: have 20 minutes some of those signs and
Caption: symptoms I've broken it up into my
Caption: animations a bit all over the shop but I
Caption: had fun emotional behavioral and
Caption: physical emotional
Caption: in my opinion is just when you're you're
Caption: not feeling yourself you'll know this
Caption: within yourself if you start to feel
Caption: lack of motivation and what you're doing
Caption: or your productivity levels lower or if
Caption: you become if you're usually quite an
Caption: optimistic person and you start to see
Caption: yourself become a little bit pessimist
Caption: in the way you view things then this is
Caption: when you should simply pick up the phone
Caption: and speak to your EAP Employee
Caption: Assistance Program hopefully you've got
Caption: that at work or your GP or a friend
Caption: these are kind of some early indicators
Caption: for you to start picking up that phone
Caption: behavioral I think that you see these
Caption: more often in others before you
Caption: recognize them in yourself and that's
Caption: just me but if you know people quite
Caption: well and you see that they start to
Caption: become disengaged or they're not
Caption: training up to work or they're isolating
Caption: themselves
Caption: I find this easier to recognize in
Caption: others before I see you to myself and
Caption: this is as simple as asking them you
Caption: know I've noticed this are you okay do
Caption: you want to talk about it equip them
Caption: with the resources that I provide at the
Caption: end of the slide tell them that there's
Caption: an EAP or simply be that listening ear
Caption: as well but these are some really key
Caption: indicators when someone might be it's
Caption: other things as well and there's other
Caption: things that can be a result of this but
Caption: burnout have these symptoms now a lot of
Caption: people don't really associate burnout to
Caption: physical science but if you notice the
Caption: last two are the ones that I experienced
Caption: obviously I had the other ones first but
Caption: these are two that I experienced a lot
Caption: of the research shows as well because
Caption: burnout is a lot of stress right there's
Caption: a a lot of stress hormones that are
Caption: released that actually alters our brain
Caption: anatomy
Caption: if we go into it for too long so there's
Caption: a lot of physical signs and symptoms and
Caption: reasons that we want to avoid burnout
Caption: these are also symptoms for many other
Caption: things so I think in general if you
Caption: experience these you call someone call
Caption: your GP that would probably be a first
Caption: point of call for a lot of these mine
Caption: was the hospital I skipped the GP all
Caption: together now some of these are pretty
Caption: heavy so let's look at how we prevent it
Caption: because none of us want to experience
Caption: these
Caption: these signs and symptoms are up here so
Caption: as individuals I think that we can
Caption: prevent burnout by understanding these
Caption: signs and symptoms so you can start to
Caption: see them in yourself I'm standing the
Caption: causes so you can either avoid them
Caption: altogether or you can alter them change
Caption: the environment around you but how do we
Caption: prevent it as an industry I think it's a
Caption: little bit broader than that as well I
Caption: think we have to work together to
Caption: prevent it and I also want to see that
Caption: stat lowered next time they do a decided
Caption: to do a global survey X I'm sure that's
Caption: easy but as organizations as well I
Caption: think need to take this too into account
Caption: we as as people and individuals can only
Caption: do so much organizations also know to
Caption: take some of these things on board I
Caption: spelt this word wrong so many times and
Caption: I was practicing this last night and
Caption: thankfully the people who are practicing
Caption: it too we're just they didn't even know
Caption: what I was trying to say but that word
Caption: is psychological safety it's a word you
Caption: would have seen around a lot lately and
Caption: I'm not gonna go too much into it
Caption: because there's separate talks on this
Caption: as well but there's a really cool
Caption: project Google did project Aristotle and
Caption: they were trying to investigate what
Caption: makes successful teens and this was
Caption: number one for them essentially what it
Caption: is is being able to show your true self
Caption: without fear of consequence coming to
Caption: work being yourself without feeling like
Caption: you're going to get in trouble for that
Caption: without this oops yeah okay worked out
Caption: the clicker without this people won't
Caption: call out if they're feeling burnt out
Caption: if you don't sorry if you don't have
Caption: this what it will do will instigate a
Caption: fight or flight response so it's a
Caption: physiological response where your brain
Caption: just releases Hebrew chemicals and you I
Caption: don't know if any of you been into fight
Caption: or flight but I just I forget my name I
Caption: get really tense
Caption: I forget what I do it's not a good thing
Caption: to be in and also prolong states these
Caption: stress hormones has huge effects on your
Caption: body you would have seen some of those
Caption: physical science prolonged states of
Caption: fight or flight is not good for you so
Caption: what can we do about psychological
Caption: safety and again this is a huge topic so
Caption: I think I've got about five articles
Caption: the URL where you can just read about it
Caption: as well you can listen and when I say
Caption: that I mean really actively listen you
Caption: know show you're engaged put your stuff
Caption: away I think you know in our world
Caption: there's a lot of holding devices while
Caption: you're in a conversation I think that
Caption: you know takes the human element out of
Caption: it so really listen show empathy don't
Caption: use discouraging language like you'll be
Caption: right that's the obvious thing you'll be
Caption: right mate or you know it's very much
Caption: you know dismissive of their feelings so
Caption: try and use encouraging words and also
Caption: try and relate by being real don't
Caption: respond to how you think you need to
Caption: respond there's no script for this in
Caption: fact there is online and I didn't
Caption: include those for that very reason
Caption: because there's there's no script for
Caption: being human and being real and action it
Caption: do something about it if you're in a
Caption: position to do so talk about it talk
Caption: about to professionals but also talk
Caption: about it to each other had a really good
Caption: friend friend and colleague of mine in a
Caption: leadership position and he was
Caption: experiencing burnout some really obvious
Caption: symptoms and after we identified that I
Caption: told him to contact our aap and there
Caption: was still this hesitancy to do so and I
Caption: said to him when you've recovered when
Caption: you feel better can you please say to
Caption: the team I used our EAP Employee
Caption: Assistance Program and I experienced
Caption: burnout and he did and it was incredibly
Caption: impactful I've had people come to me
Caption: after those sort of conversations and
Caption: say you know what me too so I think if
Caption: you're in a leadership position or in
Caption: any sort of position of influence talk
Caption: about it it's hugely impactful work-life
Caption: balance life balance my husband hates
Caption: the term work-life balance he's in their
Caption: well-being industry because he believes
Caption: that you know work family friends
Caption: they're all part of life right so as
Caption: long as you remember that neither should
Caption: be neglected it should be made a
Caption: priority there's no such thing as
Caption: perfect this week I certainly didn't
Caption: really balance my life side of things as
Caption: I did from the dhih dhih dhih talk but I
Caption: didn't neglect my daughter and husband
Caption: unplug and turn off notifications this
Caption: is a really good one to do special
Caption: in our world and show your support for
Caption: example ratify we wrote a blog to show
Caption: why and how we support work-life balance
Caption: within our organization and I've already
Caption: had conversations off the back of this
Caption: as well so wrapping up because alex is
Caption: looking at me
Caption: so things I want you to remember I want
Caption: you to know the causes
Caption: signs and symptoms so you can prevent it
Caption: and recognize those within yourself I
Caption: want you to question it will this lead
Caption: to a sustainable pace it's a simple
Caption: question as you asked it you know anyone
Caption: in your organization or a project lead
Caption: for example it's a it's quite an
Caption: impactful question share your
Caption: experiences and stories and simply talk
Caption: about them and remember it's not just
Caption: work-related I truly hope that today I
Caption: in some way removed a little bit of the
Caption: stigma around the topic I also wanted to
Caption: provide you with some resources and
Caption: again the slides have a lot more than
Caption: this I experienced burnout and so
Caption: there's 57 points 16% of our industry so
Caption: we need to make this okay to talk about
Caption: most of you in the room put your hands
Caption: up so if we could look out for each
Caption: other
Caption: call out and ask for help
Caption: [Music]
Caption: [Applause]